# RocksPaperScissors
Super simple FastAPI backed multiplayer Rocks Paper Scissors game in the browser with React (maybe)

### Project goals
My goal with this project is to implement a web-based RPS game that can accomodate at least two human players as well as a computer player. The application should also provide a basic option for saving games, and should keep the score between opponents. I'm giving myself a few hours to try to get some working code that hopefully satisfies these goals, at least in a very "first pass" kind of way.

### Starting out
Some background: over the past couple years, I've successfully been able to infect a lot of my friends with a passion for the game of backgammon. Unfortunately we all live in different states now, so we have to rely on web/mobile apps if we want to compete against each other. To our dismay and without lack of search, we haven't been able to find any existing applications out there that aren't... just terrible. As a chess player, I'm familiar with the brilliant [lichess](https://lichess.org), and was inspired to build something similar for backgammon for my friends, though I knew it would be a challenging project for somebody like me, who's no frontend whiz. Though it fell by the wayside, all this is to say that I've thought about a similar project recently, and I hope to be able to take some of the things I've learned into this project.

Here, I'll briefly sketch out my thoughts about the tech stacks I'll choose to work with, and what I'd like to get out of them. The backend will be a python backend for now; it's what I speak, and these days there are super powerful tools out there for this kind of work. Although I haven't worked a ton with it before, I'm going to employ FASTApi to power my server. I was super impressed with that project when I looked into it this past summer and the fact some of the best out there :) lean on it makes me confident. I also know that it provides me with what I want to work with on the backend, which is a main piece of tech I want to lean on here: websockets. I've worked with websockets before, and even though it might seem like overkill for this project, it's the kind of choice I know that I'd be happy I made down the road if this were anything more than a toy project. In my experience, multiclient turn-based interactions (as well as other modern problem domains like ML, high throughput streaming, etc) just can't stand up strong on the legs of strategies like client polling. From the looks of the FASTApi docs, it shouldn't be too involved to get this working in a short time.

As far as game saving goes, we need a database of course. There are tons of great options of there for something like this, but I'm hoping to keep it as simple as possible at first, maybe even just an in-memory player cache on the server. If I can get to it, maybe I'll go a step further and hook up a super basic SQLite db that lives locally. Gotta keep the score, so important! Otherwise how can you know who reigns supreme?

For the frontend, I'd love to be able to get a basic React application going. Like I've mentioned, I'm not a superwhiz with frontends, but I do understand the power there, and I have written components before, and these days tools like [create-react-app](https://create-react-app.dev/) make it easy for people like me to get up and running quickly. React is happy to work with websockets too. But it might take too me too much time to get something up, and I also want to be able to use my frontend to test out my backend and vice versa, so I may take a page out of the FASTApi docs and hook up some vanilla javascript and html that live in the same place as my backend.


### Results
A few hours later it's funny to think I might've gotten to the react stuff. I tripped over my javascript enough that towards the end I wish I maybe hadn't even included it (at least the button forms). The FastAPI docs and examples were incredibly helpful. I probably overcomplicated things I didn't need to, like the Throw classes, but once I saw they worked I just had to keep going for time. I didn't get to the point where players can play each other, but multiple players can be online and play against the computer. I felt pretty good about getting to that point. There's ton of stuff that I didn't get to or didn't have time to implement that I wish I had, like utilizing the FastAPI features for schemes and models and stuff. I didn't get to saving results either, although it's setup for that down the road I think. The player class rememers each past game result. Overall, despite the fact that there was so much I didn't get to, I am happy to be able to say that I got websockets working with some javascript in a client. This project was really fun! Thanks for the opportunity.

if you clone this repo and install it, hopefully running the sh script will bring you to the webpage where you can sign in and throw a selection with some feedback (obviously I wrote zero tests, so can't make any promises).
